This repository should contain code I've developed through out my research at TRIUMF.

All data files were stored in a different directory than these scripts, so attempts to reproduce the results of calling the scripts bellow will require the raw data to be placed in the directory ../exp/ relative to the scripts themselves.

fn.py:
This script contains several useful functions for processing data from this project and is called by main.py

main.py:
This is the primary script to fit a double lorentzian curve on our raw data. The raw data is a mess, so the file scans.dat lists the useful data and acts as the header information for those scans. After displaying the resulting fit of each scan, the resulting fitting parameters are appended to out.dat for later use

fitstark2.py:
This script fits an exponential curve to Stark-shift data. It first identifies and pulls data points from the out.dat file produced by main.py. After the fit, the plot is displayed along with the resulting reduced chi squared of the fit.

binsum7.py:
On the local machines in the lab, this script will find the newest directory with data in it and actively displays the cumulative sum of the latest scan as well as binning the scan per initial user input.

calc.py:
This python3 script runs a GUI to help users at the lab calculate the number of atoms we are trapping in our MOT. Our trapped atoms are scattering light in every direction. We have cameras with known exposure times and steradians relative to the trap. The user enters in values such as the wavelength of the trapping light, the power of the trapping beams, the beam diameters, lifetime of the excited state of our atom, the red detuning of the trapping light, region of interest counts and background counts. Depending on the certainty of the input values, we can approximate the number of atoms in our trap based on calculations made by M. Kalita.

report.sh:
This file is placed on the R-Pi unit that makes resistance measurements of the thermistors in the lab and on the ULE vacuum chamber. Once every sixty seconds, it finds the newest temperature data file and prints the last line of data. This can also be used to verify that the R-Pi is actively taking data as this script also reports the time stamp of the last data taken.

Linux_Commands.txt:
This is not a script. It is a text file with helpful linux commands to navigate and move temperature data files from our R-Pi unit.

tempplot.py & tempplotlongterm.py:
tempplot.py navigates to a directory containing our temperature data files generated by our R-Pi unit, converts the data points to corresponding temperatures for our hardware and displays a plot of the results. tempplotlongterm.py is simmilar in execution but looks at several days worth of data and has different plotting beautification to correspond to the changes.
